## Welcome to Esmeralda's ePortfolio!

### Professional Self-Assessment:
     When I first started the computer science program, I went into it with zero experience and a whole lot of motivation. This field of study excited me and challenged me in so many ways that I grew proficient in many particular areas of study within the program. When creating the ePortfolio, it had really helped to showcase my strengths and abilities by allowing me to take completed projects and perfect, change, or enhance them even more than I thought possible. As far as my professional goals, this project has helped me visualize my potential by displaying my apt and understanding of databases, software, coding, and application utilization, as well as show me that this apt and understanding of mine has greatly improved. In the professional environment, it is beneficial to be able to constantly improve and learn due to the fact that technology is always changing and advancing. It is equally beneficial to also showcase the ability to apply principles learned to real-life scenarios. Given the fact that I successfully obtain these abilities, it makes me stand out amongst the rest when it comes to the hiring process. However, this is not all that makes a good candidate for the computer science industry. I have learned the importance of communication, team work, research, and working in intervals. Communication and working with a team helped me to be able to successfully continue working on group projects smoothly. When I was confused on how to press forward, seeking community support and asking questions helped me to realize that it’s normal to not know everything, and that I can always learn something every day. Working in intervals helped move my projects along when I was stressed and overwhelmed, and it improved the quality of my work as well. By taking so many different courses that encompassed what computer science has to offer, I was able to gain experience and proficiency in each sector. 
    In regards to this ePortfolio, there were three topics of study that I had to showcase my proficiency in, which was software design & engineering, algorithms & data structure, and databases. For the software design & engineering portion, I chose a C++ program that I created in my CS 330 class which displayed a simple chair that could orbit, rotate, zoom in/out, and switch between types of view. The way that I enhanced this was by adding a backdrop (room) and a table beside it to display a room-like environment, without the interruption of the functionalities. For the algorithm & data structure portion, I chose my project from my CS 340 class, which was a python program that runs in a MongoDB environment that utilizes the CRUD functionalities to modify the database. The way I enhanced this was by adding in extra functionalities for finding and aggregating the results. For the databases portion, I chose the project from my DAT 220, which was a document that contained screenshots that displayed my ability to use graphs produced from a database, and my efficiency with analyzing them to meet business needs. To enhance this, I modified my graphs and analyzations to show more detailed and in-depth analyses. All of these artifacts fit together to encompass a broad spectrum of computer science because it shows aspects of managing a database, creating/managing software programs, as well as utilization of software programs on the user side, all to promote effective practices. With these abilities, my goals for career progression would be to either go into development to be able to improve upon software/applications, or become a pen-tester to test security applications for companies.

### ePortfolio:
This portfolio consists of three final projects, where each of them corresponds to a different portion of the project as a whole. The three portions of the portfolio, and their respective final projects, are as follows:

```markdown  
  1. **Software Design & Engineering**  /  **CS 330** _Room.cpp, Chair.cpp, Table.cpp_
  2. **Algorithms & Data Structure**    /  **CS 340** _FinalProjectMonteparo.py, FinalProjectMonteparo2.py, FindAndAggregate.py_
  3. **Databases**                      /  **DAT 220** _FinalProject_DATABASES_DODD.docx, FinalProjectData.jmp_
```
To view these project files in my repository, please [click here.](https://github.com/emonteparo/emonteparo.github.io)

Along with each of these final projects, there is a correlating narrative that spells out the process of enhancing the original projects to meet the standards for the ePortfolio.

To view the first part of the project, please click this [YouTube Link](https://youtu.be/YPDsReeT4vQ) which contains the CS 499 code review and beginning stages and plans for starting the enhancements.
